The Book of the Heavenly Expanse

Chapter 1

1:1 Hath not the Almighty set the stars in the firmament above, that mankind should lift up his eyes and inquire of their nature?

1:2 Was it not in the hearts of men, even from the days of old, to wonder what manner of things dwell beyond the vault of the sky?

1:3 Did not the ancients gaze upon the wandering stars and ask themselves, Whither do these lights journey in their appointed courses?

1:4 And was it not given unto the generations of the earth to dream of ascending unto the heavens, even as a bird riseth upon the wind?

1:5 Who among the sons of men first dared to fashion a vessel of fire and iron, that it might pierce the canopy of the firmament and soar beyond the reach of the clouds?

1:6 Did not the nations of the earth strive one against another, each asking, Shall we not be the first to set foot upon the face of the moon?

1:7 And when that brave sojourner did tread upon the dust of the moon, did not all the peoples of the world marvel together, saying, Is this not the greatest of all the works of man?

1:8 Hath any tongue among the nations been able to declare the fullness of that wonder which seized the hearts of men in that hour?

Chapter 2

2:1 Doth not the red wanderer, which men call Mars, beckon unto the children of the earth, as though calling them to a far country?

2:2 Shall mankind send forth vessels unto that crimson world, and shall not those vessels search out whether the waters of life have ever flowed upon its desolate face?

2:3 Is it not meet to ask whether living things, even the smallest creeping things invisible to the eye, have ever stirred beneath the soil of that distant land?

2:4 And what of the great ringed wonder which the ancients named Saturn; doth it not possess moons wherein vast oceans lie hidden beneath shells of ice?

2:5 Could there not be, in the deep waters of those moons, creatures unknown to the knowledge of men, dwelling in darkness and in the warmth of the deep?

2:6 Hath not the wandering star called Jupiter a moon named Europa, and do not the learned men of the earth ask whether its hidden seas might harbour the breath of life?

Chapter 3

3:1 Shall the sons and daughters of the earth content themselves with the dominion of one world alone, or shall they not seek to plant their habitations among the stars?

3:2 Is it not written in the very nature of man to go forth, to explore, and to possess that which lieth beyond the horizon?

3:3 What provisions must the sojourner carry with him, if he be to traverse the void between the worlds, where neither bread nor water nor the very air of heaven can be found?

3:4 How shall the body of man endure the long passage through the emptiness, where the bones grow weak and the flesh wasteth away for want of the pull of the earth beneath his feet?

3:5 Doth not the terrible fire of the sun cast forth rays of destruction, and must not the travellers of the void fashion shields against its wrath?

3:6 And who shall bear the solitude of that great darkness, wherein a man is separated from all his kindred by distances too vast for the mind to reckon?

3:7 Is it not a burden most grievous upon the spirit, to dwell in the void for many months, far from the green fields and the flowing rivers and the faces of those whom one loveth?

Chapter 4

4:1 Have not the wise men of the earth sent forth cunning instruments upon wings of fire, even unto the uttermost reaches of the heavens, to behold that which the eye of man alone cannot perceive?

4:2 Did not the vessel called Voyager pass beyond the company of the wandering stars, and doth it not even now cry out from the wilderness between the stars, sending word back unto the children of men?

4:3 Hath not the eye called Hubble looked into the deep places of the firmament and revealed galaxies without number, each one a congregation of ten thousand times ten thousand stars?

4:4 And hath not its successor, the eye called Webb, peered yet further into the abyss of time, beholding the light of stars that shone when the heavens were yet young?

4:5 What revelations shall these instruments yet bring forth, and shall not every new discovery raise up ten new questions where before there was but one?

Chapter 5

5:1 Who shall pay the cost of these great undertakings, for are they not endeavours requiring gold and silver and the labour of multitudes?

5:2 Ought not the nations of the earth to join their hands together and share the burden, rather than each striving alone?

5:3 And if the peoples of the world do unite in this purpose, shall it not be a sign and a wonder, that they who once made war upon one another now labour together for a common glory?

5:4 Is it not true that the fruits of such exploration have returned unto the earth manifold blessings, even medicines and instruments and knowledge beyond reckoning?

5:5 And shall the generations yet unborn not look back upon this age and ask, Were these not the days when the children of men first stretched forth their hands to take hold of the stars?

5:6 Doth not the vastness of the heavens humble the heart of man, and doth it not compel him to ask, What is man, that the cosmos should take note of him, or the son of man, that he should dare to walk among the worlds?

5:7 And is this not the most wondrous question of all: whether, in all the breadth and depth of the firmament, mankind wandereth alone, or whether there be others who also lift their eyes unto the heavens and ask, Are we alone?