ܦܪܩܐ ܐ

1:1 ܒܫܘܩܐ ܕܐܟܪ̈ܐ ܐܢܫ̈ܐ ܡܬܟܢܫܝܢ ܒܨܦܪܐ܂ ܘܙܪ̈ܥܐ ܘܦܐܪ̈ܐ ܡܬܬܣܝܡܝܢ ܥܠ ܦܬܘܪ̈ܐ܂
(In the market of farmers, people gather in the morning. And seeds and fruits are placed upon tables.)

1:2 ܐܟܪ̈ܐ ܡܝܬܝܢ ܝܪ̈ܩܐ ܡܢ ܚܩ̈ܠܬܗܘܢ܂ ܘܣܝܡܝܢ ܠܗܘܢ ܒܣܕܪ̈ܐ ܥܠ ܩܪ̈ܣܐ܂
(Farmers bring vegetables from their fields. And they set them in rows upon boards.)

1:3 ܘܢܫ̈ܐ ܘܓܒܪ̈ܐ ܡܗܠܟܝܢ ܒܝܬ ܫܒ̈ܝܠܐ ܕܫܘܩܐ܂ ܘܥܝ̈ܢܝܗܘܢ ܚܙ̈ܝܢ ܠܡ̈ܐܟܠܬܐ ܕܥܠ ܦܬܘܪ̈ܐ܂
(And women and men walk between the paths of the market. And their eyes look upon the foods that are upon the tables.)

1:4 ܙܒ̈ܘܢܐ ܩܪܒܝܢ ܠܘܬ ܐܟܪ̈ܐ ܘܫܐܠܝܢ ܠܗܘܢ ܥܠ ܛܝ̈ܡܐ܂ ܘܐܟܪ̈ܐ ܦܢܝܢ ܘܐܡܪܝܢ ܠܗܘܢ ܡ̈ܠܐ ܕܡ̈ܫܘܚܬܐ ܘܕܡ̈ܢܝܢܐ܂
(Buyers draw near unto farmers and ask them concerning prices. And farmers answer and speak to them words of measures and of numbers.)

1:5 ܝ̈ܠܕܐ ܪܗܛܝܢ ܒܝܢܬ ܪ̈ܓܠܐ ܕܐܢܫ̈ܐ܂ ܘܐܡ̈ܗܬܗܘܢ ܩܪ̈ܝܢ ܠܗܘܢ ܒܫ̈ܡܗܬܗܘܢ܂
(Children run between the feet of people. And their mothers call them by their names.)

1:6 ܟܣܦܐ ܥܒܪ ܡܢ ܐ̈ܝܕܝ ܙܒ̈ܘܢܐ ܠܐ̈ܝܕܝ ܐܟܪ̈ܐ܂ ܘܦܐܪ̈ܐ ܘܝܪ̈ܩܐ ܥܒܪܝܢ ܡܢ ܐ̈ܝܕܝ ܐܟܪ̈ܐ ܠܐ̈ܝܕܝ ܙܒ̈ܘܢܐ܂
(Silver passes from the hands of buyers to the hands of farmers. And fruits and vegetables pass from the hands of farmers to the hands of buyers.)

1:7 ܘܢܚ̈ܬܘܡܐ ܡܝܬܝܢ ܠܚܡܐ ܡܢ ܬܢܘܪ̈ܝܗܘܢ܂ ܘܣܝܡܝܢ ܠܗ ܒܣ̈ܠܐ ܩܕܡ ܐܢܫ̈ܐ܂ ܘܪܝܚܐ ܕܠܚܡܐ ܣܠܩ ܒܐܐܪ܂
(And bakers bring bread from their ovens. And they place it in baskets before people. And the scent of bread ascends in the air.)

1:8 ܘܐܢܫ̈ܐ ܡܫܩܝܢ ܡ̈ܫܩܝܬܐ ܕܩܗ̈ܘܬܐ ܡܢ ܟ̈ܣܐ ܒܐ̈ܝܕܝܗܘܢ܂ ܘܡܗܠܟܝܢ ܘܫܬܝܢ ܒܗ ܒܫܘܩܐ܂
(And people pour drinks of coffee from cups in their hands. And they walk and drink in the market.)

ܦܪܩܐ ܒ

2:1 ܘܪ̈ܥܘܬܐ ܕܥ̈ܢܐ ܡܝܬܝܢ ܓܒ̈ܬܐ ܘܚܠܒܐ ܘܒ̈ܥܐ܂ ܘܡܣܕܪܝܢ ܠܗܘܢ ܥܠ ܦܬܘܪ̈ܐ ܕܩܝ̈ܣܐ܂
(And shepherds of flocks bring cheese and milk and eggs. And they arrange them upon tables of wood.)

2:2 ܘܙ̈ܡܪܐ ܩܝܡܝܢ ܒܫ̈ܘܩܐ ܘܩܪܝܢ ܒ̈ܩܠܝܗܘܢ ܘܡܚܝܢ ܒ̈ܟܢܪܝܗܘܢ ܘܒ̈ܦ̈ܠܓܝܗܘܢ܂ ܘܐ̈ܕܢܐ ܕܐܢܫ̈ܐ ܫܡ̈ܥܢ ܠ̈ܩܠܐ ܗܠܝܢ܂
(And musicians stand in the market and cry out with their voices and strike upon their harps and their instruments. And the ears of people hear these sounds.)

2:3 ܘܟ̈ܠܒܐ ܡܗܠܟܝܢ ܥܡ ܡܪ̈ܝܗܘܢ ܒ̈ܚܒܠܐ܂ ܘܝܬܒܝܢ ܬܚܝܬ ܦ̈ܬܘܪܐ ܟܕ ܡ̈ܪܝܗܘܢ ܡ̈ܡܠܠܝܢ ܥܡ ܐ̈ܟܪܐ܂
(And dogs walk with their masters by ropes. And they sit beneath tables while their masters speak with farmers.)

2:4 ܘܦ̈ܪܚܬܐ ܕ̈ܗܒܐ ܡ̈ܬܟܢܫܢ ܘ̈ܦܪܚܢ ܥܠ ܩ̈ܛܥܐ ܕ̈ܠܚܡܐ ܕ̈ܢܦܠܝܢ ܥܠ ܐ̈ܪܥܐ܂
(And birds of the air gather and fly upon fragments of bread that fall upon the ground.)

2:5 ܫܡ̈ܫܐ ܩ̈ܝܡ ܒ̈ܫ̈ܡܝܐ ܘ̈ܙܗܪܘܗܝ ܢ̈ܚܬܝܢ ܥܠ ̈ܡ̈ܫ̈ܟ̈ܢܐ ܕ̈ܫ̈ܘ̈ܩ̈ܐ܂ ܘ̈ܐ̈ܟ̈ܪ̈ܐ ̈ܦ̈ܪ̈ܣ̈ܝ̈ܢ ̈ܡ̈ܥ̈ܛ̈ܦ̈ܬ̈ܐ ̈ܥ̈ܠ ̈ܦ̈ܐ̈ܪ̈ܝ̈ܗ̈ܘ̈ܢ ̈ܠ̈ܡ̈ܛ̈ܠ ̈ܥ̈ܠ̈ܝ̈ܗ̈ܘ̈ܢ ̈ܡ̈ܢ ̈ܚ̈ܘ̈ܡ̈ܐ ̈ܕ̈ܫ̈ܡ̈ܫ̈ܐ܂
(The sun stands in the heavens and its rays descend upon the tents of the market. And farmers spread coverings over their fruits to shelter them from the heat of the sun.)

2:6 ܘܒܬܪ ̈ܫ̈ܥ̈ܐ ̈ܙ̈ܒ̈ܘ̈ܢ̈ܐ ̈ܡ̈ܬ̈ܟ̈ܢ̈ܫ̈ܝ̈ܢ ̈ܠ̈ܒ̈ܬ̈ܝ̈ܗ̈ܘ̈ܢ ̈ܘ̈ܛ̈ܥ̈ܢ̈ܝ̈ܢ ̈ܙ̈ܒ̈ܢ̈ܬ̈ܗ̈ܘ̈ܢ ̈ܒ̈ܐ̈ܝ̈ܕ̈ܝ̈ܗ̈ܘ̈ܢ ̈ܘ̈ܒ̈ܟ̈ܬ̈ܦ̈ܬ̈ܗ̈ܘ̈ܢ܂
(And after hours, buyers gather themselves to their houses and carry their purchases in their hands and upon their shoulders.)

2:7 ܘ̈ܐ̈ܟ̈ܪ̈ܐ ̈ܡ̈ܟ̈ܢ̈ܫ̈ܝ̈ܢ ̈ܦ̈ܬ̈ܘ̈ܪ̈ܝ̈ܗ̈ܘ̈ܢ ̈ܘ̈ܡ̈ܫ̈ܟ̈ܢ̈ܝ̈ܗ̈ܘ̈ܢ܂ ̈ܘ̈ܛ̈ܥ̈ܢ̈ܝ̈ܢ ̈ܠ̈ܗ̈ܘ̈ܢ ̈ܥ̈ܠ ̈ܥ̈ܓ̈ܠ̈ܬ̈ܗ̈ܘ̈ܢ ̈ܘ̈ܬ̈ܝ̈ܒ̈ܝ̈ܢ ̈ܠ̈ܚ̈ܩ̈ܠ̈ܬ̈ܗ̈ܘ̈ܢ̈܂
(And farmers gather their tables and their tents. And they load them upon their carts and return to their fields.)

2:8 ̈ܘ̈ܫ̈ܘ̈ܩ̈ܐ ̈ܦ̈ܝ̈ܫ ̈ܣ̈ܦ̈ܝ̈ܩ̈ܐ̈܂ ̈ܘ̈ܫ̈ܬ̈ܩ̈ܐ ̈ܫ̈ܪ̈ܐ ̈ܥ̈ܠ ̈ܐ̈ܬ̈ܪ̈ܐ̈܂ ̈ܥ̈ܕ̈ܡ̈ܐ ̈ܠ̈ܫ̈ܒ̈ܬ̈ܐ ̈ܐ̈ܚ̈ܪ̈ܬ̈ܐ ̈ܕ̈ܐ̈ܬ̈ܝ̈ܐ̈܂ ̈ܟ̈ܕ ̈ܐ̈ܟ̈ܪ̈ܐ ̈ܬ̈ܘ̈ܒ ̈ܢ̈ܐ̈ܬ̈ܘ̈ܢ ̈ܥ̈ܡ ̈ܝ̈ܥ̈ܠ̈ܬ̈ܐ ̈ܕ̈ܐ̈