ܦܪܩܐ ܩܕܡܝܐ

ܟܬܒܐ ܕܓܘܕܦܪܝ ܢܦܚܐ ܕܦܪܙܠܐ

1:1 ܘܐܬܐ ܓܒܪܐ ܚܕ ܠܘܬ ܓܘܕܦܪܝ ܢܦܚܐ ܕܦܪܙܠܐ ܠܒܝܬ ܐܘܡܢܘܬܗ ܕܐܝܬ ܗܘܐ ܒܗ ܢܘܪܐ ܪܒܬܐ ܘܫܠܗܒܝܬܐ ܕܠܐ ܕܥܟܐ܂
(And a certain man came unto Godfrey, the smith of iron, to the house of his craft wherein there was a great fire and a flame that was not extinguished.)

1:2 ܘܫܐܠܗ ܗܘ ܓܒܪܐ ܘܐܡܪ ܠܗ܂ ܡܢܐ ܗܝ ܗܕܐ ܕܡܬܩܪܝܐ ܘܝ ܦܝ ܒܠܫܢܐ ܕܝܠܟ܂
(And that man asked him and said to him: What is this thing that is called "Wi-Fi" in your tongue?)

1:3 ܘܫܡܥ ܓܘܕܦܪܝ ܡܠܬܐ ܗܕܐ ܘܐܬܪܓܙ ܒܠܒܗ ܘܐܪܝܡ ܐܪܙܦܬܗ ܡܢ ܣܕܢܐ ܘܐܗܦܟ ܐܦܘ̈ܗܝ ܠܘܬ ܗܘ ܓܒܪܐ ܒܚܡܬܐ ܪܒܬܐ܂
(And Godfrey heard this word and was wroth in his heart, and he lifted his hammer from the anvil, and he turned his face toward that man in great anger.)

1:4 ܘܦܬܚ ܦܘܡܗ ܘܐܡܪ܂ ܘܝ ܦܝ ܐܡܪ ܐܢܬ܂ ܡܢܐ ܗܝ ܗܕܐ ܡܠܬܐ ܕܫܛܝܘܬܐ ܕܡܦܩ ܐܢܬ ܡܢ ܦܘܡܟ ܐܝܟ ܪܘܚܐ ܣܪܝܩܬܐ ܡܢ ܟܝܪܐ ܕܠܝܬ ܒܗ ܓܡܘܪ̈ܐ܂
(And he opened his mouth and said: "Wi-Fi" you say? What is this word of foolishness that you bring forth from your mouth, like empty wind from a furnace in which there are no coals?)

1:5 ܠܐ ܫܡܥܬ ܡܡܬܘܡ ܡܠܬܐ ܐܝܟ ܗܕܐ ܒܟܠܗܘܢ ܝܘ̈ܡܬܐ ܕܚܝ̈ܝ ܘܒܟܠܗ̇ ܐܪܥܐ ܗܕܐ ܕܦܠܚ ܐܢܐ ܒܗ̇ ܠܣܕܢܐ ܡܢ ܛܠܝܘܬܝ ܘܥܕܡܐ ܠܗܫܐ܂
(I have never heard a word like this in all the days of my life, and in all this land wherein I have labored at the anvil from my youth even until now.)

1:6 ܕܠܡܐ ܚܪܫܘܬܐ ܗܝ ܗܕܐ ܕܡܠܠ ܐܢܬ ܥܠܝܗ̇܂ ܐܘ ܕܠܡܐ ܡܠ̈ܐ ܕܚܪ̈ܫܐ ܘܕܩܨܘ̈ܡܐ ܐܝܬܝܗܝܢ ܕܐܬ̈ܝܢ ܡܢ ܐܪ̈ܥܬܐ ܪ̈ܚܝܩܬܐ ܕܡܕܢܚܐ ܐܘ ܡܢ ܡܥܪ̈ܬܐ ܕܬܚܝܬ ܐܪܥܐ ܐܝܟܐ ܕܥܡܪ̈ܝܢ ܫܐ̈ܕܐ܂
(Perhaps it is sorcery that you speak of? Or perhaps they are words of sorcerers and diviners that come from distant lands of the east, or from caves beneath the earth where demons dwell?)

1:7 ܐܢ ܗܟܢܐ ܗܘ ܙܠ ܡܢ ܩܕܡ ܐܦ̈ܝ ܘܠܐ ܬܝܬܐ ܗܠܝܢ ܡ̈ܠܐ ܛܡ̈ܐܬܐ ܠܓܘ ܒܝܬ ܐܘܡܢܘܬܝ ܗܢܐ ܕܫܬܐܣ ܐܒܝ ܘܐܒܐ ܕܐܒܝ ܩܕܡ̈ܝ܂
(If it is so, go from before my face, and do not bring these unclean words into this house of my craft which my father and the father of my father established before me.)

1:8 ܐܝܬ ܠܝ ܣܝ̈ܦܐ ܕܐܚܕܕ ܘܦܪ̈ܙܠܐ ܕܣܘ̈ܣܝܐ ܕܐܢܦܚ ܘܡ̈ܐܢܐ ܕܦܕ̈ܢܐ ܕܐܬܩܢ ܩܕܡ ܕܢܐܬܐ ܙܒܢܐ ܕܚܨܕܐ܂ ܘܗܠܝܢ ܐܝܬܝܗܘܢ ܥܒ̈ܕܐ ܕܓܒܪ̈ܐ ܫܪ̈ܝܪܐ ܘܠܐ ܗܘܐ ܡ̈ܠܐ ܣܪ̈ܝܩܬܐ ܕܫ̈ܛܝܐ ܘܕܛܥ̈ܝܐ܂
(I have swords to sharpen and irons of horses to forge and implements of plows to repair before the time of harvest comes. And these are the works of true men, and not the empty words of fools and of those who wander astray.)

1:9 ܗܫܐ ܡܕܝܢ ܐܢ ܐܝܬ ܠܟ ܣܟܝܢܐ ܕܬܚܕܕ ܐܘ ܦܪܙܠܐ ܕܬܬܩܢ ܡܠܠ ܐܝܟ ܒܪ ܐܢܫܐ ܕܐܝܬ ܠܗ ܗܘܢܐ ܒܪܫܗ ܘܠܐ ܗܘܐ ܐܝܟ ܫܛܝܐ ܕܐܫܬܝ ܚܡܪܐ ܣܓܝ ܒܒܝܬ ܡܫܬܝܐ܂
(Now then, if you have a knife to sharpen or an iron to repair, speak like a son of man who has understanding in his head, and not like a fool who has drunk much wine in the tavern.)

1:10 ܘܐܢ ܠܝܬ ܠܟ ܡܕܡ ܐܠܐ ܡ̈ܠܐ ܕܫܢܝܘܬܐ ܗܠܝܢ ܦܘܩ ܡܢ ܗܪܟܐ ܡܢ ܩܕܡ ܕܐܫܕܐ ܥܠܝܟ ܡ̈ܝܐ ܩܪ̈ܝܪܐ ܡܢ ܡܐܢܐ ܕܡܛܒܥ ܐܢܐ ܒܗ ܦܪ̈ܙܠܐ ܫܚ̈ܝܢܐ ܕܬܬܥܝܪ ܡܢ ܫܢܝܘܬܟ ܗܕܐ ܘܬܕܥ ܕܐܢܬ ܩܐܡ ܒܒܝܬ ܢܦܚܐ ܘܠܐ ܗܘܐ ܒܒܝܬ ܫ̈ܛܝܐ܂
(And if you have nothing but these words of madness, go out from here, before I pour upon you cold water from the vessel in which I plunge hot irons, that you may be awakened from this madness of yours and know that you stand in the house of a smith and not in the house of fools.)

1:11 ܐܡܝܢ ܐܡܪ ܐܢܐ ܠܟ ܠܐ ܝܕܥ ܐܢܐ ܡܢܐ ܗܝ ܘܝ ܦܝ ܘܠܐ ܨܒܐ ܐܢܐ ܕܐܕܥ ܘܠܐ ܫܘܝܐ ܗܝ ܕܐܫܡܥ ܥܠܝܗ̇ ܕܢܬܬ̇ ܝܘܡ ܥܒܕܝ ܒܡ̈ܠܐ ܕܠܐ ܝܘܬܪܢ ܘܕܬܩܘܡ ܢܘܪܬܝ ܘܬܕܥܟ܂
(Truly I say to you, I do not know what "Wi-Fi" is, and I do not desire to know, nor is it worthy that I should hear about it, lest the day of my labor be wasted with words of no profit and my fire stand still and be extinguished.)

1:12 ܗܫܐ ܙܠ ܒܫܠܡܐ ܘܠܐ ܬܘܒ ܬܐܡܪ ܡ̈ܠܐ ܢܘܟܪ̈ܝܬܐ ܒܐܕ̈ܢܝ ܕܠܐ ܐܥܒܕ ܠܟ ܡܕܡ ܕܬܬܬܘܐ ܥܠܘܗܝ ܒܬܪܟܢ܂
(Now go in peace, and do not again speak strange words in my ears, lest I do to you a thing which you shall regret afterward.)